docs: Fusion Snapshots incremental dumps and GCP support (#929)
seqeralabs/docs: fusion_docs/guide/snapshots/aws.md

---
title: Fusion Snapshots for AWS Batch
description: "Fusion Snapshots configuration and best practices for AWS Batch"
date: "21 Nov 2024"
tags: [fusion, storage, compute, snapshot, aws, batch]
---

Fusion Snapshots enable checkpoint/restore functionality for Nextflow processes running on AWS Batch Spot instances. When a Spot instance interruption occurs, AWS provides a **guaranteed 120-second warning window** to checkpoint and save the task state before the instance terminates.

## Requirements

### Seqera Platform compute environment

- **Provider**: AWS Batch
- **Work directory**: S3 bucket in the same region as compute resources
- **Enable Fusion Snapshots (beta)**
- **Config mode**: Batch Forge
- **Provisioning model**: Spot
- **Instance types**: See recommendations below

:::tip Configuration

> Fusion Snapshots work with sensible defaults (5 automatic retry attempts). For advanced configuration options like changing retry behavior or TCP handling, see the [Configuration Guide](configuration.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fusion Snapshots work with sensible defaults (e.g., 5 automatic retry attempts). For advanced configuration options like changing retry behavior or TCP handling, see the [Configuration guide](configuration.md).
```

:::

### (Seqera Enterprise only) Select an Amazon Linux 2023 ECS-optimized AMI

> To obtain sufficient performance, Fusion Snapshots require instances with Amazon Linux 2023 (which ships with Linux Kernel 6.1), with an ECS Container-optimized AMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For optimal performance, Fusion Snapshots require instances running Amazon Linux 2023 (which ships with Linux Kernel 6.1) and an ECS Container-optimized AMI.
```

| r6id.4xlarge   | 16    | 128          | 12.5                     | 10.24:1                | ~105 seconds      |
| m6id.8xlarge   | 32    | 128          | 25                       | 5.12:1                 | ~70 seconds       |

### Resource limits

It's possible for a single job to request more resources than are available on a single instance. In this case, the job will wait indefinitely and never progress to running. To prevent this from occurring, you should set the maximum resources requested to below the size of a single instance listed above. This can be configured using the `process.resourceLimits` directive in your Nextflow configuration. For example, to limit a single process to fit within a `c6id.8xlarge` machine, you could set the following:

```groovy
process.resourceLimits = [cpus: 32, memory: '60.GB']
```

## Best practices

- **Instance selection**: Prefer instances with 5:1 or lower memory:bandwidth ratio

> - **Architecture**: Use x86_64 instances to enable incremental snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Best practices

- **Instance selection**: Prefer instances with 5:1 or lower memory:bandwidth ratio.
- **Architecture**: Use x86_64 instances to enable incremental snapshots.
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Exit code 175**: Dump failed, likely due to timeout. Reduce memory usage or increase bandwidth.
- **Exit code 176**: Restore failed. Check logs and verify checkpoint data integrity.
- **Long checkpoint times**: Review instance bandwidth, consider x86_64 for incremental snapshots.
- **State stuck in DUMPING**: Previous checkpoint exceeded reclamation window.

> For detailed troubleshooting, see [Troubleshooting Guide](troubleshooting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed troubleshooting, see [Fusion Snapshots troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md).
```
